README.md, before:


# FKF.SP

<!-- badges: start -->
<!-- badges: end -->

Fast and flexible Kalman filtering implementation utilizing sequential processing, designed for efficient parameter estimation through maximum likelihood estimation. Sequential processing is a univariate treatment of a multivariate series of observations and can benefit from computational efficiency over traditional Kalman filtering when independence is assumed in the variance of the disturbances of the measurement equation. Sequential processing is described in the textbook of Durbin and Koopman (2001, ISBN:978-0-19-964117-8). 'FKF.SP' was built upon the existing 'FKF' package and is, in general, a faster Kalman filter.

## Installation

You can install the released version of FKF.SP from [CRAN](https://CRAN.R-project.org) with:

```
install.packages("FKF.SP")
```

And the development version from [GitHub](https://github.com/) with:

```
devtools::install_github("TomAspinall/FKF.SP")
```
which contains source code for the package starting with version 0.1.0.

Commit message:

0.2.0
The planned release of 0.2.0.

Updates include, as according to 'NEWS.md':

- NFCP now depends on the 'LSMRealOptions' package
- American put option pricing is now supported through the 'AmericanOptionValue' function and the 'LSMRealOptions' package
- Minor adjustments to parameters of 'TSFit.Volatility' function
- 'NFCP.bounds' has been renamed to 'NFCP.Domains' and now allows for further customization of the search applied in 'NFCP.MLE'
- Added American option pricing example to vignette
- The 'NFCP.MLE' function now orders outputs in terms of increasing mean-reversion rates
- The 'NFCP.Kalman.filter' function now returns the bias and RMSE of input parameters when 'verbose = TRUE' through the 'Filtered.Error' list object
- The 'NFCP.MLE' function now returns the user, system and elapsed time through the 'proc_time' list object.
- Minor bug fixes, particularly to the 'Spot.Price.Simulate' function

README.md, after:

# NFCP
N-Factor Commodity Pricing Through Term Structure Estimation

<!-- badges: start -->
<!-- badges: end -->

Commodity pricing models are (systems of) stochastic differential equations that are utilized for the valuation and hedging of commodity contingent claims (i.e. derivative products on the commodity) and other commodity related investments. Parameters of commodity pricing models are estimated through maximum likelihood estimation, using available term structure futures data of a commodity. 'NFCP' (n-factor commodity pricing) provides a framework for the modeling, parameter estimation, probabilistic forecasting, option valuation and simulation of commodity prices through state space and Monte Carlo methods, risk-neutral valuation and Kalman filtering. 'NFCP' allows the commodity pricing model to consist of n correlated factors, with both random walk and mean-reverting elements. Commodity pricing models that capture market dynamics are of great importance to commodity market participants in order to exercise sound investment and risk-management strategies. The n-factor commodity pricing model framework was first presented in the work of Cortazar and Naranjo (2006). Examples presented in 'NFCP' replicate the two-factor crude oil commodity pricing model presented in the prolific work of Schwartz and Smith (2000) with the approximate term structure futures data applied within this study provided in the 'NFCP' package. Kalman filtering in 'NFCP' is performed using sequential processing through the 'FKF.SP' package to optimise computational efficiency. Parameter estimation of n-factor models is performed using genetic algorithms through the 'rGenoud' package to maximise the likelihood that a global maximum is reached during maximum likelihood estimation.

Primary features of 'NFCP' include:

- Parameter estimation of n-factor commodity pricing models through state space methods, Kalman filtering and maximum likelihood estimation.

- Analytic pricing of European call and put options under estimated n-factor commodity pricing models

- Probabilistic forecasting and Monte Carlo simulation of future commodity price paths.

## Installation

You can install the released version of NFCP from [CRAN](https://CRAN.R-project.org) with:

```
install.packages("NFCP")
```

And the development version from [GitHub](https://github.com/) with:

```
devtools::install_github("TomAspinall/NFCP")
```
which contains source code for the package starting with version 0.1.0.
